u dosya "c.txt" dosyasıdır.
BU üçüncü dosyadır ve ikincisine kıyasla daha büyüktür.
Bunun yanında birinci doyaya kıyaslada boyut olarak daha büyüktür.


Artificial Neural Network (ANN)The  Artificial  Neural  Network  (ANN)  is  one  of  the  prominent machine   learning   algorithms   used   in   fingerprint   recognition systems   [10].   It   can   be   used   from   quality   assessment   (Pre-processing)    to    fingerprint    classification.    Fingerprint    quality assurance  is  necessary  before  feature  extraction; otherwise,  poor quality images can degrade system performance. Rui Xie et al.[11] proposed  a  neural  network  based  image  quality  estimator  that takes  gray  scale  fingerprint  as  input  and  generate  a  continuous image  quality  score  (score  between  0-1).  This  Artificial  Neural Network  is  trained   with   the  back-propagation  algorithm.  The proposed  quality  estimator  divides  the  images  into  the  blocks  of size  16*16,  which  increases  the  computational  cost.  En  Zhu  et  al. [12] described a neural network based quality estimator in which correctness  of  ridge  orientations  for  each  local  image  block  is estimated  by  back  propagation  trained  neural  network.  On  the basis    of    the    computed    correctness    of    these    local    ridge orientations,  global  image  quality  is  measured.  This  method  also suffers  from  extra  computational  time.  Ruggero  Donida  Labati  et al.  [13]  described  a  novel  technique  for  contactless  fingerprint quality  assessment.  They  definea new  set of  features  and  extract those  features  from  frames  using  a  neural  network  classifier  that is   later   used   for   fingerprint   matching   purposes.   The   major objective  of this  approach  is  to  determine those  frames that  have major  defined  features.  The  major  drawback  of  this  technique  is computational   time.   Anton   Makarov   [26]   proposed   a   novel fingerprint   quality   estimation   technique   using Self-Organizing Maps (SOM). In this technique, SOM network is trained on a large data  set  of  feature  vectors  of  fingerprint  images  and  able  to classify    images    into    numerous    quality    classes.    The    major advantage  of  this  method  is  its  low  computational  time  and  high accuracy of quality predictions.Another  application  of  artificial  neural  networks  in  fingerprint recognition    isfeature    extraction.    Liu    Yong-Xia    et    al.    [14] investigated a method of singular points detection from gray scale image  using  a  backpropagation  neural  network.  It  divides  the image  into  the  blocks  of  size  35*  35  pixels  and  then  determines whether  a  particular  block  contains  a  singular  point.  The  major problem with this method is increased computation time because an   imageis   subdivided   into   blocks   and   accuracy   of   detected singularpoint  location.  Josef  storm  Bartunek  et  al.  [15]  used multilayer feed forward neural network to extract minutiae (ridge termination   and   bifurcation)   from   a   skeletonized   gray   scale fingerprint image. To improve the computation time, a window of size   5*5isslid  over   the  entire  skeletonized  image   to   extract minutiae points. The major problem of this techniqueis the extra processing   time   required   to   skeletonize   a   fingerprint   images. Basem O. Alijla et al. [27] used feed forward multilayer perception for   ridge   bifurcation   extraction.   It   uses   this   ridge   bifurcation combined  with  a  core  point  for  matching  purposes.  Major  issues with this method are extra processing time required for core point detection  and  less  accuracy  because  of  fewer  minutiae.  Pavol Marak   etal.   [28]   proposed   a   neural   network-based   feature extraction   method   that   extracts   level   2   (minutiae   features). Further, these  features  areused  with coarse  features (level  1)  for fingerprint   identification.   Maciej   Szymkowski   et   al.   [29]   used atwo  stage  feature  extractor  in  which  neural  network  combined with   Crossing   Number   (CN)   algorithm.   The   crossing   number algorithm removes spurious minutiae from the minutiae extracted by  a  neural  network.  The  main  problem  is  computational  time. Dividing  the  image  into  3*3  squares  requires  extra  processing time.  Guang  Yang  et  al.  [16]  presented  Falcon-DIC  fuzzy  neural network   based   minutiae   extractor   for   gray   scale   fingerprint images.  The  method  is  based  on  the  definition  of  multiple  mask windows to collect the information around a minutiae point (light or dark level).Artificial   Neural   Networks   is   also   played   a   crucial   role   in fingerprint  classification  and  matching.  AdrianLim  Hooi  Jinet  al. [30]   used   a   backpropagation   neural   network   for   fingerprint recognition.  The  main  drawback  of  this  system  is  to  identify  and recognize the core area only. Atanu Chatterjee et al. [31] proposed Fingerprint acquisition(Sensor)Fingerprint Pre-processingFeatureExtraction and selectionDatabaseFingerprint acquisition(Sensor)Fingerprint  Pre-processingFeatureExtraction and selection Fingerprint MatchingOutput
A SHORT REVIEW ON MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES USED FOR FINGERPRINT RECOGNITIONJournal of critical reviews    
qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq
qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqw
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy
uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuj
hhhhhhhhh                                                                                              2771a    backpropogation    ANN    based    technique    for    fingerprint identification.  This  technique  uses  thinned  minutiae  features  for matching  purposes.  To  remove  false  minutiae,  post  processing  is also performed. This technique is tested on smaller size databases and achieves accuracy around 95%. K. Stephane Kouamo et al.[32] proposed  artificial  neural  network based  fingerprint  classifier  for e-learning  applications.  The  idea  is  to  apply  a  backpropagation algorithm  to  train  the  multilayer  feedforward  neural  network  for fingerprints.    Hidden    layers    of    ANN    are    used    to    perform comparisons  of  the  template  by  calculating  probabilities,  which makes  system  invariant  to  rotation  and  translation.  The  major drawback of  this  system  is  that  training  time is high.  R.  Kumar et al.  [33]  used  a  multidimensional  artificial  neural  network  for fingerprint identification using minutiae features. The recognition rate of  this  algorithm  is  around  98%.  Sujan  et  al.  [25]  proposed a technique   to   use   HAusdorff–Voronoi   NETwork   (HAVNET)   to classify  binary  fingerprints.  The  HAVNET  was  an  ANN  (artificial neural  network)  originally   designed  for   recognition   of   binary pattern   in   two   dimensions.   The   HAVNET   network   includes   a similar  number  of  output  nodes  as  the  number  of  fingerprints stored,  so  additional  output  nodes  must  be  added  as  soon  as  a new  fingerprintis  stored.  The  major  drawback  is  that  the  size  of the  network  will  also  increase  as  the  number  of  fingerprints increases.  Terje  Kristensen  et  al.  [17]  presented  a  comparative study of support vector machine, multi-layer perceptron, Hopfield neural   network, BAM,   and   Kohonen   network   as   fingerprint classifiers.  They  concluded  that  multi-layer  perceptron  trained with  back  propagation  shows  higher  accuracy  as  88.8%.  SVM secured  a  second  position  with  87%  accuracy.  The  other  two classifiers failed to classify fingerprints correctly. Nihan Kahraman et  al.  [34]  proposed  an  artificial  bee  colony  optimized  multilayer perceptron  (MLP)  model  for  minutiae  features  extraction  and matching  for  fingerprints.  This  model  achieved  91  and  above accuracy.Support Vector MachineSupport Vector Machine(SVM)is a supervised learning algorithm used for regression, linear and nonlinear classification, and outlier detection. The  main  concept  of  using  a support  vector machine is tomaximize  the boundaryfrom  hyperplane  so  that  patterns  are classified  correctly  into  different  classes.  Lianhua  Liu  et  al.  [18] presented  a  support  vector  machine  based  fingerprint  quality assessment  method  that  used  five  features  whichare  extracted from an  image. This  method classifies the  fingerprint  images into three classes: high, average and low quality and achieved accuracy 96.03%.  In  this  method,  feature  extraction  increases  processing time.   Fingerprint   segmentation   is afundamentalstep   in   the preprocessing   step.   Shijun   Zhao   et   al.   [19]   used SVMbased segmentation  algorithm  which  divides  image  in  12*  12  pixels block.  It  segments  low  gray  variance  background  blocks  by  using the  contrast.  After  that,  the  meanenergy  ratio  and  coherence blocks  are  extracted.  The  remaining  blocks  are  segmented  by  a SVM.  This  method  is  robust  for  small-scale  evaluation.  Nishesh Nigam   et   al.   [35]   used  a   support   vector   based   segmentation method for low quality images. This method contains three steps: preprocessing,    segmentation,    and    post    processing.    It    uses GaussianFilter  and  Histogram  Equalization in  the  pre-processing step  and  split  and  merge  technique  to  find  global  mean,  local mean, local variance and coherence are used in segmentation step. After using the fillthe gap algorithm in the post-processing step, a linear support  vector  machine  classifieris  used  for  classification. This  method  shows  90%  accuracy.  Mohamed  Hammad  et  al.  [36] proposed  a  fingerprint  classification  technique  based  on  a  Q-Gaussian multi-class support vector machine (QG-MSVM) in which Q-Gaussian function  is integratedinto  SVM  as  a  kernel  function. This   method   shows   a   significant   improvement   in   fingerprint classification  with  an  accuracy  of  98%.  Youssef  Elmir  et  al.  [37] used  a  support  vector  machine  for  fingerprint  identification.  In this, the minutiae image of the fingerprint has to be converted into a finger code vector by using a Gabor filter bank. A support vector machine is designed and trained to recognize these finger codes of the  databases.  J.  Li  et  al.  [20]  proposed  an  SVM  based  fingerprint classification   technique   that    classifies    fingerprints   into    five classes.  With  the  orientation  coefficient  and  singular  points,  this technique     achieves     accuracy     93.5%.     However,     separately accuracies  are  87.4%,  88.3%  with  orientation  coefficients  and singular points.Genetic AlgorithmRecently,  some  genetic  algorithm-based  approaches  play  a  major role in fingerprint recognition. Keming Mao et al. [21] developed a fast   and   efficient   technique   for   core   point   and   orientation detection   using   the   genetic   algorithm.   They   proposed   a   new definition  of  core  point  orientation  in  terms  of  ridge  orientation around  core  point  and  finally  core  point  and  their  orientation  is determined  by  using  the  fitnesscalculationfunction  of  the GA. Processing   time   is   the   major issuewith   this   technique   and increases  with  accuracy.  Puneet  Kaur  et  al.  [38]  used  a  genetic algorithm to extract minutiae points from fingerprint images. This algorithm used the genetic algorithm to determine discontinuities using   predicting   the   last   nthsegment   method.   This   approach worked   with   only   one   minutiae   feature   (ridge   ending)   and showed  a  low  accuracy  of  classification.  Xuejun  Tan  et  al.  [22] proposed  a  fingerprint  matching  algorithm  based  on  the  genetic algorithm in which global optimized transformation between two sets of minutiae are determined. This method computes the triplet of minutiae, which includes ridge counts, internal angles, minutiae density,    maximum    side,    triangle    handedness,    and    triangle direction.  The  fitness  function  is  based  on  thelocal  properties  of each    triplet    of    minutiae    and    is    used    to    find    potential corresponding  triangles  and  tolerate  reasonable  distortions.  This method works well with poor quality images, but processing time is  still  a  challenging  task.  B.  Poorna  et  al.  [39]used  a  genetic algorithm  based  fingerprint  matching  algorithm  that  deals  with gay  level  values  of  minutiae  points.  This  method  suffers  from convergence  of  GA.  Xuejun  Tan  et  al.  [23]  used  a  new  feature-learning  based algorithm  for  fingerprint  classification. These  new features  are  not  traditional  and  genetic  programming  is  used  to discover    them    by    evolving    primitive    operations    of    image processing. Bayesian classifier is used for fingerprint classification.  The  correct  classification  rate  for  NIST-4  data  base is  91.6%  (class  5)  and  93.3%  (class  4).  Ismail  A.  Ismail  et  al.[40] designed   a   fingerprint   matching   algorithm   that   used   genetic programming   with   minutiae   points   to   extract   mathematical formulas.  These  formulas  are  used  for  fingerprint  matching.  This approach   suffers   processing   time   to   generate   mathematical formulas.   Sheng   et   al.   [24]   proposed   a   novel   algorithm   for memetic    fingerprint    matching   (MFMA),    which    is   aimed   at detecting  the  optimum  or  nearly  optimal  global  match  between two  minute  sets.  In  the  MFMA  an  effective  correspondence  is carried  out  by  examining  local  features  of  minutiae  for  the  initial population  of  locally  aligned  configurations.  Then,  by  combining the  global  search  functionality  of  a  genetic  algorithm  with  the local  improvement  operator,  they  devised  a  hybrid  evolutionary procedure   to   search   the   optimal   or   nearly   optimal   global alignment. lastly,   they   defined   a   reliable   fitness   calculation functionand   an   enhanced   integrated   method.   The   memetic fingerprint matching algorithm  was  evaluated on  four  fingerprint databases  and  results  confirmed  the  reliability  of  the  algorithm, but this algorithm required more computa
